It has been controversial how BoDV-1 spreads from cell to cell since the virions were undetectable in the central nervous system ([Gosztoyni and Ludwig, 1995](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7789150/)). Therefore, it is thought that the cell-to-cell dissemination occurs through a transmission of viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP) between neuronal junctions and synapses. However, to enter a new cell, the virus, in whatever form, will require a tropism determinant and a means to cross the membrane barriers to infect a new cell. This begs the question of whether the spread requires the G protein. 

An early experiment in primary rat hippocampal cells showed that BoDV-G is necessary for successful cell-to-cell spread ([Bajramovic et al., 2003](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/jvi.77.22.12222-12231.2003)). They also showed that neutralising antibodies raised against BoDV-G can inhibit cell-to-cell spread ([Bajramovic et al., 2003](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/jvi.77.22.12222-12231.2003)). However, an experiment in a co-culture cell system showed similar cell-to-cell dissemination rates when furin processing was dysfunctional ([Clemente and De La Torre, 2007](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/JVI.02426-06)). Interestingly, [Clemente and De La Torre (2007)](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/JVI.02426-06) also purified partially glycosylated G species from the furin-deficient cell line. This suggests glycosylation of G protein also occurs after furin-induced cleavage. Nonetheless, their results contradicted a more recent evidence using a potent inhibitor of furin which resulted in inhibition of cell-to-cell spread ([Lennartz et al. (2016)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cmi.12515)). The mismatch between the translation rates of G protein in their systems may be an underlying factor and G protein may be indeed required for the cell-to-cell spread. 

Cell-to-cell spread may occur through a formation of an intracellular infectious structure coated with the G proteins because cell-to-cell spread can be inhibited by neutralising antibodies and furin inhibitors. However, there has been no molecular detail at the cell-cell interfaces while the cells are persistently infected by BoDV-1. Hence, the mechanism of this process remains unclear. Since glycoproteins from other viruses (Refs) have been shown to form a distinctive functional complex, it is likely that BoDV might employ the same strategy.